 ---
layout: post
title: Sorting
---

### Leetcode Question 324
Given an unsorted array nums, reorder it such that nums[0] < nums[1] > nums[2] < nums[3]....

Example:
(1) Given nums = [1, 5, 1, 1, 6, 4], one possible answer is [1, 4, 1, 5, 1, 6]. 
(2) Given nums = [1, 3, 2, 2, 3, 1], one possible answer is [2, 3, 1, 3, 1, 2].

Analysis:

1. The list needs to be sorted firstly
2. The number bigger than the median should be placed on even positions, while the number smaller than the median should be placed on odd positions.

Code from <a href="https://discuss.leetcode.com/topic/32861/3-lines-python-with-explanation-proof">https://discuss.leetcode.com/topic/32861/3-lines-python-with-explanation-proof</a>:

{% highlight python %}
class Solution(object):
    def wiggleSort(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :rtype: void Do not return anything, modify nums in-place instead.
        """
        nums.sort()
        half = len(nums[::2])
        
        nums[::2], nums[1::2] = nums[:half][::-1], nums[half:][::-1]
{% endhighlight %}


### H-Index
**Question Version 1:**
Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.

According to the definition of h-index on Wikipedia: "A scientist has index h if h of his/her N papers have at least h citations each, and the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each."

For example, given citations = [3, 0, 6, 1, 5], which means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively. Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, his h-index is 3.

**Question Version 2:**
Given an unsorted array， find the greatest natural number N, such that, there exists at least N numbers in the array which are greater or equal to N.

**Analysis:**

1. There i only one h-index for each array.
2. Sort the array in descending order.
3. Find the item that array[i] >= i+1 backwards.
4. The first index of arrays is 0. Be careful with it.

**Code:**
{% highlight python %}
class Solution(object):
    def hIndex(self, citations):
        """
        :type citations: List[int]
        :rtype: int
        """
        
        citations.sort(reverse = True)
        citations = [0] + citations
        
        for i in range(len(citations)-1, -1, -1):
            if citations[i] >= i:
                return i
        return 0
{% endhighlight %}


### H-Index II
Follow up for H-Index: What if the citations array is sorted in ascending order? Could you optimize your algorithm?

**Analysis:**:

1. Use binary search.

**Code:**
{% highlight python %}
class Solution(object):
    def hIndex(self, citations):
        """
        :type citations: List[int]
        :rtype: int
        """
        if not citations:
            return 0
        
        n = len(citations)
        start, end = 0, len(citations)-1
        while start <= end:
            mid = (start+end)//2
            if citations[mid] >= n - mid:
                end = mid - 1
            else:
                start = mid + 1
        
        return n - start
{% endhighlight %}
